[CALMING MUSIC]
>> Hi, it's James here
from "Food Matters."
And today, we're going to be
talking about a topic that
deeply affects us all,
and yet rarely comes
onto the discussion table.
And that is about the depth
and the connection of our love
and intimate relationships.
My guest today is Arielle Ford.
She is a leading
expert in this space.
She's authored over 11
books on this topic,
including the bestseller
Soulmate Secrets."
Arielle, hello.
>> Hey, how are you?
>> Good.
So this sort of arena,
relationships, love
and connection, we
know it's so important.
And yet, very few of us
delve into its depths.
I don't suppose you came at this
from an academic perspective.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm sure there was probably
some personal story that
kicked it off for you.
Can you tell me about it?
>> Yeah, it was not predictable
on any level that I would turn
into a love and
relationship expert.
I grew up in a home
with two parents who
absolutely hated each
other, fought all the time.
Thank god they got divorced when
I was 16, because it was just
a nightmare.
And I was a very late
bloomer when it came to love.
I was a first-time bride at 44.
And it wasn't that I had
anything against marriage.
I just wasn't focused on it
until the day that I was.
I woke up one morning,
I was 43 years old,
and I didn't even
have my eyes open yet.
I was kind of feeling
around the bed looking
for my 25-pound cat.
And the cat wasn't there.
But what I noticed
was that there was
this huge empty expanse of bed.
And I thought to
myself, oh, my god.
I forgot to get married.
And I started thinking about,
how did I get to be 43,
never married?
I had this great life.
Everything was good.
And I realized that all my
time and energy and attention
was on building my business.
And I thought,
well, I was really
good at manifesting all the
right things for my business.
Maybe I can manifest a soulmate.
So I took everything
I knew from--
we didn't call it
love attraction back
then, but manifesting--
and within six months, I
manifested the most perfect guy
in the world.
I call him my heart
chakra on legs.
And we met.
Three weeks after we
met, we got engaged.
A year after that we
had three weddings.
And we've now been
together 22 years.
>> Wow, that's pretty cool.
That doesn't happen
to most people.
One of the things I
want to talk about
is that you know,
in Bronnie Ware's
"Five Regrets of the
Dying," one of the top
regrets that people
have is that they didn't
have deep intimate connections
with people in their lifetime,
or they didn't keep them
for a long period of time.
And yet, relationships
can be the source
of so much pain and so
much positive energy.
How have you sort of grown
to understand the power
of relationship in your life?
>> Well, after I got married,
I quickly discovered that I had
no partnership skills.
And in fact, the skill
that I was the best at
was being the boss, which
I found out very fast
doesn't work when you're
with a masculine alpha male.
So I made myself
a student of love.
I wanted to find out well,
how could I be a good partner,
and what is marriage really
about, and how does love work?
And so I took this deep
dive and did a lot of study.
And what I discovered
is first, most people
have no idea what love is.
OK, they think
love is a feeling.
Oh, James, I feel
like there's champagne
going through my body.
I love you so much.
So what that is, is the
world's greatest drug high.
And your brain is emitting
tons of chemicals, oxytocin,
and adrenaline, and
dopamine, and it's
just a great drug high.
It's actually nature's trick
to get us to procreate,
to keep the species going.
And it doesn't last.
And it isn't really love.
It's lust.
It's connection.
It's fun.
It's passion.
But it's not what real love--
real adult mature love is.
What real adult mature love
is, is first and foremost,
it's a behavior.
It's a choice.
It's a decision.
It's a practice.
It's an action.
It's a way of being.
And so while you and
I could be soulmates,
and we could have all these
great wonderful feelings,
there will be days when
you hate me and I hate you.
And that is totally normal.
But most people start
thinking about divorce.
Something's wrong.
If you were really my soulmate,
you would love and accept me
for exactly who I
am, and you would
know exactly what
I want and need
and give it to me all the time.
And that's kind of not
what it's all about.
So there's a couple
of people you'll
hear me quote a lot
today, because I
didn't originate this material.
I just digested it and
shared it with the people
who most want it.
So at the University
of Washington,
there's a man named Dr. John
Gottman who is the world's
leading marriage researcher.
He's had a thing called "The
Marriage Lab" for 50 years.
And what he discovered is
that every couple-- not just
some of them-- every couple
has a minimum of nine
irreconcilable differences.
So the most common
one is money--
one's a spender, one's a saver.
One's always on time,
one's always late.
One wants it hot,
one wants it cold.
One wants sex three times a
day, one wants it once a month.
And we live like it
shouldn't be this way.
And that's what's normal.
What isn't normal
is to leave somebody
you say you love because
they're always late.
So the solution becomes
finding creative solutions, not
compromises, because
that's a win-lose,
but a creative solution.
And what I invented for
myself was something
that I call wabi sabi love.
So in Japan, there's an old
aesthetic called wabi sabi.
And in wabi sabi,
they seek to honor
all things old, worn,
imperfect, impermanent.
And they're looking to
find beauty and perfection
in imperfection.
And when I learned about
it, I thought, wow,
what if I applied that
to my relationship?
What if I could
look for the beauty
and perfection in
my own imperfections
and in your imperfections?
And by doing that,
you're not demanding
that your partner change.
You don't have to have a
conversation with your partner.
So I'll give you an example.
So when Brian and I
got together and we'd
been married a short time, one
day I found myself like this--
I don't remember what
I was doing it about,
but I was like--
and I stopped.
And I said to him,
please, forgive me.
I'm really sorry.
This will probably happen again.
And the next time it happens,
could you just kindly gently
say to me, when did
Sheila enter the room?
Now, Sheila's my mother's name.
And I love my mother.
But she's a very bo--
I got to be bossy
by watching her.
And he got it instantly.
And he started laughing.
And he said, yes.
And when I get too
patronizing, you
can call me Wayne,
his father's name.
So by utilizing wabi
sabi, we found a way
to prevent World War III,
make fun of each other,
and just reframe the situation.
So that's something that I
have found works really well.
If you're-- let's say
you're the late person,
and I'm the on-time person.
I could be constantly
berating you.
Why can't you just be on time?
It's so rude.
It's so unkind.
What would work
better if I could say,
here's the reason I need
you to either be on time
or let me know when
you're going to be
late is because I get anxiety.
When you don't show
up, I go into this
you know, negative feedback
loop where I think, oh, my god,
did he get in a car accident?
Did he have a heart
attack and drop dead?
So I just can't
exist in the world
when I'm worried about you.
Now, once you know that,
you could say, oh, well,
I don't want Arielle to worry.
I am running late.
Let me just send her a text.
So that's the way to work
through the differences,
Because the
differences are normal.
>> I love it.
I've read about your
wabi sabi concept.
I love it.
And I've got a unique
and fabulous family,
a beautiful wife.
I love her dearly.
We've been together a long time,
14, 15 years married this year.
And of course, we
have differences.
But we've found fun
ways to play with it.
But on the wabi
sabi perspective,
I've got two boys now.
And sometimes I get
irked about things
that they do-- leaving
stuff around or doing this,
because I'm quite
organized in my life.
But then I think, if
they weren't here,
those things wouldn't be
there and I'd completely
miss them in my life.
So I've learned to see them
as clues of my love for them.
And you spoke about that I
think with the dishes example.
Was that right?
>> Yes, yes.
>> Can you tell me that, because
I think people would really
relate to that.
>> Yeah, so there was--
I can't remember
the woman's name.
Let's call her Mary--
and Mary married a
man who had three
teenage college-aged kids.
She didn't have any children.
And they would come home
from college or high school
or whatever, and they'd
all get in the kitchen
and cook together.
And the kitchen would become
this big ugly, dirty mess.
And rather than
celebrating the family fun,
she would start to
have panic attacks.
And when she looked
deeper into it,
she realized that she had
grown up with a bipolar mother
and that when the kitchen
was clean and spotless,
it meant mom was OK.
And when the kitchen
was dirty and chaotic,
it meant bad times were coming.
So once she got to
understand the wabi sabi-ness
of her own family, she could
sort of separate her childhood
from the reality that
this messy kitchen now
meant she had a lot
of love in her life.
>> I love that.
And I use it frequently, because
one of the irreconcilable
differences between myself and
Laurentine is she has a messy
cooker, and I'm a
clean-as-you-go guy.
Like, by the time the
meal's on the table,
it is spotless in the kitchen.
And I love it, and I can eat--
>> I'm the messy
one in our family.
And Brian came from a
clean kitchen household.
And you know, years ago I
remember every morning he
would come into the
kitchen, and he'd say to me,
why is your coffee
cup still in the sink?
The dishwasher's right there.
Why don't you just
put it in there?
And then he'd say,
and why are there
crumbs around the toaster?
And it's like, what crumbs?
I don't see any crumbs.
This went on for
like six months.
And it got to the
point, every time
I saw him walking towards
me, I'd think, oh, shit,
what did I do now?
And then one morning
he came in the kitchen
and he had this silly
grin on his face.
And I said, what's going on?
He said, well, I got up
in the middle of the night
to get a glass of water.
I saw your coffee
cup in the sink.
I saw the crumbs
around the toaster.
And I fell even more
in love with you.
And it's like huh?
What do you mean?
He said, I realized you
just don't see these things.
And since I'm the one
who's bothered by it,
I am promising you I will
spend the rest of my life
cleaning up after you.
>> That's so sweet.
That's so sweet.
>> And the opposite side of that
is that he's a youngest child.
I'm an oldest child.
So his core wound
is being heard.
Like, being listened to is
the most important thing
in the world to him.
And you know, I'm the
world's worst listener.
But we've gotten to
a point now where
sometimes he'll say to me,
you're not listening to me.
And then he'll stop
and he'll laugh
and I go, oh, that's my issue.
And other times I'll go,
oh, no, you're right.
I drifted.
I'm sorry.
Would you forgive me and
repeat what you said?
So there are ways to
take what's normal
and natural, which is
tension, and find a way
to own it and take care of it.
>> I think that's
really beautiful.
That's such a mature
approach, right?
Because I do see people
rushing to this like,
it's never going to work.
Let's finish it up.
This is impossible
for us to resolve.
>> Let me give you some
frightening stats about
it's never going to work.
So I don't know what
it's like in Australia.
But in the United
States, everybody
knows that 50% of first
marriages end in divorce.
That's just a fact.
What nobody knows is that
62% of second marriages
and 71% of third
marriages end in divorce.
OK, so leaving doesn't
solve the problem.
Because it's not like you're
marrying the same person
over and over again.
The same person is you showing
up over and over again,
not knowing how to be a partner.
So marriage is not
for children, OK,
because you have to learn
emotional management.
You have to learn great
communication skills.
You have to be willing
to stay in the fire
when it's burning
hot, even though you
don't want to be there.
I mean, but the
other side of it is
that you get to spend your
life with your lover, your best
friend, your
biggest cheerleader,
your partner for life,
your safe place to land.
And the cost of that
is paying attention.
>> That's cool.
I like that.
I really want to go to
family of origin stuff.
>> Family?
>> Family of origin stuff,
so like, as children.
Because in a lot of
the work that we've
been doing more recently-- so as
we sort of progress from health
and happiness and fulfillment,
we sort of learn everything
from our environment
when we're young.
And so if we've been in
relationships or witness
to relationships
that haven't thrived,
can you talk to
me about how sort
of belief systems
about relationships
that we might
develop as children
manifest as we get older?
And how we can sort of develop
an awareness of some of those--
>> Well, it's really
a simple answer.
When you were a
little boy, did you
believe in Santa Claus
and the Easter Bunny?
You did, right?
And then you grew up, and you
went, oh, that's not real.
Let me have a new belief.
You know, oh, maybe now
I believe in hard work
and earning my way
through the world.
So it's really about
being willing to become
an emotionally mature adult. OK,
so my parents didn't get along.
They hated each other.
The mantra I heard out
of my mother's mouth
forever was, all men are idiots.
That was what I grew up
with-- all men are idiots.
Now, I grew up to
discover that's not true.
But for the early
years of my dating,
I lived like all
men were idiots.
And then I started to
say, wait, I'm not really
having a lot of fun here.
And the truth is that guy
graduated from Harvard Law
School.
He is not an idiot, you know.
Maybe I need to change.
So we have to be willing to
look at our belief systems
and question them and do what
my old friend, Wayne Dyer,
always said, which
is so brilliant.
He said, don't believe
every thought that you have.
I mean, that to me is one of
the most genius things ever.
Just because you're having a
thought doesn't make it true.
Just because you think--
like, I'm sure you
have never woken up--
what's your wife's name?
>> Laurentine.
>> Laurentine, OK.
Have you ever woken up in the
morning thinking to yourself,
I wonder what I could do today
to make Laurentine crazy?
No, of course not.
And she hasn't done that.
Nobody wakes up in
the morning thinking,
how can I make my mate
or my spouse crazy.
And yet, we live
as if that's true.
We react to them like,
why do you always--
you know, like they're
doing it intentionally.
And one of the things
I recently learned--
we have a woman
on the radio here
for 30 years named
Dr. Laura Schlesinger.
I don't know if
you've heard of her,
but she's a famous
love advice person.
And I was listening
to her recently,
and some woman was
whining and moaning
about something her husband did.
And she said, imagine just
in this moment that you
were his defense attorney.
What would you say to the
jury about his behavior?
How would you defend him?
And she was like, well, I
know that when he was younger
this and that happened to him.
And he still has a
little PTSD about it.
And that's why he can't
handle such and such.
And it just shifts everything.
Like, what if we could be
all in with our partner?
And we're going to love them,
the good, the bad, the ugly,
the stuff we like, the
stuff we don't like,
and we're going to be
their defense attorney.
We're going to be their warrior,
their spiritual warrior,
their love warrior.
How would that shape
the rest of your life?
>> In a profound way.
I mean it would help you to see
multiple sides of the equation.
>> And don't you want
to be seen that way?
Really, we all want
the same basic things.
According to
Maslow, we most need
physical and emotional safety,
and then food, air, water,
and we want to be
loved, seen, and heard
for exactly who we are.
We want to be accepted.
And if you can't want
your spouse's happiness
as much as you want
your own happiness,
then you probably
shouldn't be married.
You know, you don't have
to be married, you know.
It's a choice.
But if you're on
a spiritual path,
there's no better fast track
to enlightenment than marriage.
>> That's true.
That's true.
Or having children,
or adopting children.
I've adopted recently.
And I've got an instant
13-year-old boy, which is fun.
>> That's super challenging,
because once he feels safe,
he's going to act out his whole
history to see if you're going
to love him anyway.
You know, and there's
nothing more than you can do.
And tell him every single day,
no matter what you've done
or what you're doing,
you are loved here.
You know, we may not like
it, and you may get punished,
but you are loved.
And there won't be
enough hours in the day
for you to reinforce
that message.
>> That's beautiful.
I'm coming to that realization.
One of the things
that is true when
it comes to health and
happiness and well-being
is a quality of relationships.
But not just intimate
marriage relationships.
I'm talking about community,
the sense of community.
You look at the blue
zones, for instance.
As long as there are
people around the world,
yes, it's what they
eat a little bit.
But not really.
They drink wine.
They have long lunches .
They do all sorts
of random things.
But they live in
multigenerational homes.
They live in communities.
They connect.
They have this strong sense of
relationship in their lives.
I feel like in the
modern Western world,
we've sort of divided
up our families.
We've divided up our culture.
We've got fences everywhere.
We ship off old people
into old people's homes.
And then when we die, we're
like oh, I miss everybody.
You know, it's the
number one regret.
How do we deepen
the relationships,
not just with
ourselves, but with all
of the people around
us in our community
or our friends or our family?
And is that ever the
same tools that you
use in intimate
relationships to do that?
>> Well, I think it's
the same intention.
You know, you first
have to say you know,
I'm just not willing to not
have these people in my life.
You know, like how can I
open my heart, open my arms,
open my home to bring people in,
to be the gatherer of my tribe
and to share that with them?
Because really, the biggest
social sickness in the world
right now is loneliness.
People are literally
dying of broken hearts.
They're just so
isolated and lonely.
And with social media, it's
even worse, because then you
get to see oh, look, they're
out with their grandchildren.
They're out with their kids.
They're having a family reunion.
Somebody just went to a wedding.
And here I am in my
little studio apartment,
75 years old, all by
myself, not feeling great.
And next door or
the floor above you
there could be somebody who
could say, hey you know,
we're having a family
dinner tonight.
Why don't you join us?
But it requires
awareness and really
willing to extend yourself.
And given how busy people
have gotten, it's impossible.
Because you know,
right now there's
this whole sandwich generation.
So you've got kids.
You have aging parents.
You have money
pressure, work pressure.
And then we're living in the
field of planet Earth, which
has never been more turbulent.
So even if you're
meditating twice a day,
you're still
absorbing the stress
and the turbulence
of everybody else.
And most the time, you
don't recognize it.
So you may not have a
lot of personal stress.
But you're still going to be
stressed out, because we're
living in the field.
And there's no way to
disconnect from the field.
>> One thing you sort of
touched on a little bit I think,
but I'd like to maybe ask it in
a different way is people have
emotional traumas or things
that they've gone through
in their lives.
And then when we come
into a relationship
and we feel safe enough.
Then we start sharing, right?
Then we start unpacking
these emotions of my dad
do this to me or this happened.
Are relationships a good
place to help each other heal
from these types
of emotion, or not?
Or should they just be kept
to the psychiatrist's office?
I don't know.
>>Well, Harville Hendrix, who
is the other world's leading
marriage expert, believes
that soulmate marriage--
the whole purpose of it is to
heal your earliest childhood
wounds from your caregivers.
That you're to be in
the safe container
where it is safe and
allowed for this to come up
to heal each other.
One of the problems
I have with what's
happening in the
self-help world right
now is there's this huge amount
of people teaching self-love.
And then they show
up at my workshops
on how to manifest
a soulmate, and they
don't want to get
started, because they
have this whole story--
well, until I love myself
I can't manifest a soulmate
I don't love myself enough.
And I'm just like, oh,
it's so crazy making.
Here's what you need to.
do.
The minute you're
with your soulmate
and you see how much love
they have for you reflected
in their eyes, there's
no faster, deeper
healing than being loved.
Because if your core wound
is you don't love yourself,
you're never getting over it.
We never get over
our core wounds.
What we do is if we do
enough deep work, is
we learn how to mitigate
the negative parts
of the core wounds.
We know how to live.
We can tap, do Sedona
method, do heart lock-ins,
meditate, exercise, hot yoga.
There's a million ways to
mitigate the discomfort.
But your core wound
is your core wound.
You're going to die
with your core wound.
So if you're waiting to
oh, I love myself so much
now I'm ready for love,
you're going to die alone.
So I'm telling everybody,
if you have a deep desire
to have a partner, there
are 7.8 billion people alive
on this planet right now.
And half of them are single.
There are no shortage of
conscious potential partners
out there.
The only thing missing is you
being willing to be visible
and to make an effort.
>> I agree.
I got deep into the
work of David Deida
at a certain point
in my journey,
because in every evolution
of the relationship
there's things to
understand and work on.
And one thing I found
fascinating from my learnings
there, at least one
take away from me
is that he described a little
bit more about the feminine
to me, because I wasn't
taught that by my father.
I wasn't taught it by my mother.
They have their
own relationship.
And that's what it is.
And I aspire to
something different.
And he told me that the feminine
will say things or do things
that they don't always mean.
But the masculine
takes it literally
and they're like, really?
Is that what you mean?
That's it.
It's over.
I'm out of here.
And it was a real struggle
for me in my masculine,
because I would bring
my notebook out,
all right, what's your problem?
All right, I'm going
to solve them for you.
And that's not what
women want, right?
>> No.
>> Can you explain that to me?
Because I've learned this now,
and I feel grateful for it.
>> We also did some of his
workshops and found it really
valuable.
And so you know, men
are very focused.
You basically don't
want to ask them
two questions in
the same breath,
one question at a time--
question A, answer,
question B, answer.
They go on a direct line and
they love to solve problems.
They want to be your hero.
I tell women all
the time, men are
so easy if you understand
how their brains work.
All they want to
do is please you.
And they actually can't be
happy unless you're happy.
Women on the other hand, we can
digest multiple things at once.
We can be very diffused.
You know, I'm
looking over there.
Oh, she is beautiful shoes on,
and god, that's a cute curl
in his hair.
And I wonder what
I'm having for lunch.
And all this is happening
at the same time.
And then a storm comes in, and
we're pissed off or, we're PMS,
or we're having something
and we get angry and bitchy.
And you know,
well, what's wrong?
What's wrong?
And there's nothing wrong.
It's just a storm
moving through.
Just let us go.
You know, I remember when
Brian and I first got together,
I'd come home from work
and he'd say, well,
where do you want to
go to dinner tonight?
And it was the most upsetting
question in the world.
I had just spent the whole
day making decisions.
The last thing I
wanted to do is figure
out what I wanted for dinner.
So finally, we got
to a point where
he would say one of two
things, either, I've
made an executive decision and
we're going to A for dinner,
or would you like A, B, or C
for dinner, which was perfect.
Then I could just choose.
Then I could lean back
into my feminine energy
and receive his
direction, you know?
But we're not taught
this anywhere,
which is why we had to take
the David Deida workshops,
because we met, we started
a business together,
we got married.
And suddenly, we're
talking business 24/7.
And I remember we'd be out to
dinner at 8 o'clock at night,
and he'd start talking to
me about a certain contract.
And I'd have this really like--
I would just go
like that inside.
It's like, I don't
want to talk business.
And he'd say, well, why not?
It's fun.
And I didn't know why not.
And then I learned
that, you know,
when I'm in business
mode, I'm in my male head,
testosterone-driven, solving
problems, making stuff happen.
And it was fun and I enjoyed it.
But at night, I just wanted
to be in my feminine energy.
I wanted to stop thinking, stop
choosing, and just sort of lean
back.
So once we understood
each other better,
we were able to set boundaries
and you know, he understood me.
I understood him.
And now, we're at a point
where it's just a dance.
It's just a flow.
It's not like-- because he is
a very masculine guy, but very
comfortable in his feminine.
And I'm very comfortable
in my masculine
and have to remind myself
to get into my feminine.
And we've gotten to a point
where it's just a good dance.
>> I think that you and Brian
have a lot in common with
myself and Laurentine.
We've done business together.
She's very practically
strong in her masculine
and needs to be reminded to
get into feminine every now--
and I'm comfortable
in my feminine
as much as I am in
my masculine as well.
And it is a dance.
One thing-- and I
don't know if this
is something you've
sort of specialized in,
but it's something I'm
intrigued in from a relationship
perspective is a lot of
relationships start passionate,
and then they end
up contractual.
They end up like all right,
you drive the kids to school.
I'll do this.
I'll do that.
And then there's no passion.
There's no hot sex.
There's no intimacy.
It's gone.
And then there's not
really many places
where we're taught how
to cultivate intimacy,
how to create that.
How important do
you think that is?
>> Well, is exercise
important to you?
And you make it a habit, right?
It's a priority.
You know, reviving romance
needs to be a priority.
So that would mean that once a
week you have a designated date
night where you don't talk
about the schedule of who's
driving which kids to what
soccer practice, right?
And the thing that keeps the
hotness of a relationship alive
is novelty.
So you don't go to the
same restaurant every week.
And you don't do the same thing.
One of the fastest
ways to spark passion
takes a little bit of planning.
So they've done these studies
where they showed that--
what's something that you know
your wife would be terrified
to do, like jumping out
of a plane or bungee
jumping or a roller coaster?
>> All of the above.
>> OK, and is there any one
of those that you would be
terrified of?
>> Yes.
>> OK, which one?
>> Jumping out of a plane.
>> OK, so you two decide that
you are going to jump out
of a plane together.
You go and you do it.
You are going to have a shared
adrenaline rush, because you're
now doing something
that you both perceive
as life threatening.
So it's going to be big.
When you land, you
get in your car
and drive to the nearest
motel and have really hot sex.
And the reason for
this is that there's--
I don't remember
the name for it--
but there's an
actual name for it
that when you survive a life
threatening incident together,
you deeply bond.
Now, I'll give you a
real-life example of this.
Do you know Christie Brinkley
is-- very famous model--
American model, blonde, she
was married to Billy Joel,
the entertainer for many years.
Then she got divorced.
Then she met this real estate
developer named Ricky Taubman.
And on their third
date they went
to Aspen to do
helicopter skiing.
And the helicopter crashed
and they both lived.
And they got married
the next week.
Now, they were divorced
three months later.
But they totally
bonded over that.
So a way to really
respark passion
is to scare the shit
out of each other.
That's one way to do it.
>> Interesting, so interesting.
Maybe I could take
her heli skiing.
Although she's a
better skier than me,
so that would probably
just cross me.
>> Yeah, well, it could just be
as simple as a roller coaster
or whitewater river rafting,
just something where
you're both going to
have an adrenaline rush.
And then don't rush
home, rush to some--
that's the other thing,
getting out of the house.
Because if you're in
your house and she's
looking at the ceiling
and oh, my god,
there's a tear in
the curtains and did
I hear one of the
kids in the room?
This is why vacation sex tends
to be better than home sex,
because you need to have
just the two of you.
>> What is this-- there's this
feathering the next concept
question there.
>> OK, so it's for singles.
It's about a way to
prepare your home.
>> OK, how does that work?
>> OK, so when you're
feathering the nest,
you're getting your home
ready to receive your beloved.
You're telling the
universe that I literally
have space in my life to
receive somebody into my home.
So the first thing to do is
to clear out all the clutter.
It's sort of feng shui 101.
Get rid of the clutter.
You want to get rid of any
photos, mementos, or souvenirs
of you with an ex
in Corfu or wherever
that are going to start
a conversation that isn't
going to go somewhere great.
You want to make sure
that in the bedroom
that if you have a bed that
you shared with your ex-husband
or ex-wife, get a new bed.
If you can't afford a new
bed, at least get new linens.
Make sure that the nightstand
on both sides of the bed
are of the same height and that
the nightstand on their side
of the bed is totally empty--
nothing and it, just empty.
Make sure that one drawer
is empty for their clothes.
Make some space in the closet.
Give them half a shelf
in the bathroom cabinet.
If you have a two-car garage
and you've been parking
in the middle, move over.
All of these are subtle
signs to the universe
that I am open, willing,
and available for someone
to come into my life.
And even if you're
certain they're never
going to live in
this place with you,
it's still a good idea
to go through this
and sort of set the stage.
I have room for you in my life.
So that's what
feathering the nest is.
>> I really like that.
That's so sweet.
And it's so weird that
Laurentine and I, we're quite--
I find quite an interesting
and unique couple.
We feel that we've
been able to grow
a lot together and continue.
But our origins where I used
to go to sea on ships and work
ships, and I would pray for
somebody that I could spend
the rest of my life with
and I could share my life
experiences with.
That was my biggest
wish and desire--
someone that I could be with
from now until forever and we
could go, remember that time,
or remember this, or remember--
And so I was really
deeply at that time,
not knowing what I was
doing-- in a way manifesting.
It was more prayer-based for me.
You know, just before--
you know, if I thought
this would happen.
She was cutting out
literally, a vision board
of this one picture
of-- it happened
to be a Hugo Boss model.
And it's funny that our first
child's called Hugo now.
And we didn't realize
that until later.
But they're all
different looking models.
I'm not going to say
that I look like him.
But I looked very
much like this guy,
like the same chin, the same
jaw line, a similar type face,
same short hair, same thing.
We pulled that photo and I was
like, oh my god, Laurentine,
you cut that photo
out before you met me?
And she's like, yeah, I put
that on my vision board.
So you know, you never know.
I think there's power in that.
>> Yeah, no, I knew one
woman who was an artist.
She was a painter.
And she painted this
picture of this man.
And then three weeks later,
the man in her painting
showed up and is
now her husband.
>> Yeah, you never know
how the universe works.
>> We don't need
to understand it.
We just need to enjoy it.
>> Yeah, true.
OK, so there's one or
two other things here.
Health benefits of being in
love and having relationships.
>> Well, there's been
studies done which are known
as the marriage effect.
And what they discovered is
that couples who are happily
married live longer, happier,
more satisfying lives,
and they experience
much less physical pain.
So this is proven.
They have not been able to prove
that it's true for couples who
are in love but not married.
For some reason, actually
taking sacred vows
ensures the marriage effect.
The other piece of
it that they found
is that married men, whether
they're happily married
or not--
married men live
seven years longer
than divorced or single men.
Seven years-- now, women don't
live any longer that way,
but men get--
so if you're a single
or divorced man
and longevity is important
to you, you need a partner.
>> Do you think that's because
they're hanging around making
sure they don't cheat
on somebody else?
[LAUGHTER]
>> No, I think it's more that--
part of it's the emotional
and physical safety
of having a partner.
And you know, most men, the last
time they have a physical exam
is in high school until
they're in their 40s
and they have a real problem.
But if you're married,
especially if you have kids,
your wife is not going to
let you not go to the doctor,
because you have a
responsibility to her
and the kids to stay healthy.
So there is built-in
safety factors for men
that women bring that men
won't do on their own.
>> That's sweet.
Controversial question
before I get to the last one.
Do you believe in
the idea of monogamy
as the cornerstone of
the modern relationship?
>> I do.
I do.
And I've done all
the tantra workshops.
I've talked to people about
polyamory, non-monogamy versus
monogamy.
And what I've
observed is that if--
for most people, if you
want to have a committed,
long-term happy life,
monogamy is the way to go.
Now, there are some people
that agree that they
can each be non-monogamous.
And it seems to be
working for them.
The one thing I've never
seen work, ever is polyamory.
And that's because
you're trying to have
multiple emotional
relationships.
And eventually,
two people choose
each other over the
third or the fourth
and then jealousy just naturally
erupts and things fall apart.
So you know, I know that the
younger generation is really
into experimenting.
And the thing I
say to all of them
is that I'm so grateful that I'm
from the baby boom generation,
because I grew up in an era
where sex couldn't kill you,
and you could trust
your drug dealer.
And none of those
are true today.
You know, I mean
really, they just
found out that Lyme disease
is sexually transmitted.
There's so many dangers
to having unprotected sex
you know, that you really
have to be focused.
So if you fall in
love and you see
someone you want to
spend your life with,
why would you want
to risk killing them?
And that's what happens.
I mean, really, it's that risky.
Because I don't know
very married men
that walk around with
condoms in their wallet.
So that's where I'm
at the whole thing.
That's just based
on observation.
And I don't judge people.
You know, do what
you want to do.
But for me, I'm
all in, you know?
I'm not cheating.
He's not cheating.
And there's a great
sense of security
in knowing that you
can trust your partner.
>> Beautiful, I love that.
Final question--
do you think that
powerful intimate relationships
have the capability to change
the world and the planet?
Because I love these really
grand concepts of like,
how do we change the world?
We'll become more conscious
through our children
and help them not have too
many limiting beliefs when
they grow up so they can
be compassionate and not
racist, and connected and open
and loving and heal the world
and solve the environmental
problems, right?
That's one idea.
But being a specific
relationship expert,
do you believe that deep
loving relationships can
save the planet?
>> I do.
I do.
And I always tell, particularly
single women that are
like afraid to date or they
don't want to go online--
but you know that that's
their biggest desire--
and I said listen,
don't do it for you.
Do it for me.
OK, because the world
has never needed
love like it needs love now.
And my husband came up
with a mathematical formula
around all of this.
He calls it soulmate math.
In regular arithmetic,
1 plus 1 equals 2.
In soulmate math,
1 plus 1 equals 11,
and your love blesses the world.
>> That's super sweet.
Anything else you
want to finish with?
Anything we haven't finished?
Anything that's still open?
Any study or anything
that you think
is interesting
about relationships?
>> Yes, OK-- so there's
a lot of resistance,
particularly on the part
of women on online dating.
Oh, I tried it.
It didn't work for me.
And I always tell them,
yes, you tried it,
and you didn't know
how to do it right.
And so you just want to give up.
And they say, oh, I just want
to meet somebody organically.
Here are the most
recent statistics.
40% of marriages
now begin online.
OK, and the divorce rate for
people who meet and marry
online is under 10%.
So you can have your
whole story and you
can die alone if you'd like.
Or you can go to the
world's greatest cocktail
shopping party and you know,
like Amazon Prime one click,
you can start clicking away.
And then it just
becomes a numbers game.
You just have to find the
one that you connect with.
>> That's cool.
I love it.
Thank you so much for your time.
>> You're welcome.
>> Wonderful to chat.
And you've enlightened
me more deeply
about how to be more conscious
in my relationship as well.
>> Just be a defense attorney.
>> Yes, for the other person.
>> Yes.
>> And I love that.
>> I know, when I
heard her say that--
because she's--
>> Because I'm just
grappling with that now.
It's like, if we've got
something going on, well,
how can I see that maybe what
she experienced as a child
or what she witnessed could
be contributing to that
and that it's not
her fault really?
>> And it probably isn't.
You know, like, if your
7-year-old falls and skins
his knee and starts
to cry, you're
not going to beat him up.
He's got a wound.
The difference is
we're grown up adults
and you can't see our wounds.
But they're there.
You know, and it's
interesting to say well,
I just want to fix you.
But maybe really,
all you need is a hug
and you just want to be loved.
Oh, yes, this is coming
up for you again.
Like, my core wound is
poverty consciousness.
You know, and I've
worked on it forever
and it's manageable
to a certain degree.
But when I get into
this contractual thing,
Brian just reminds me,
everything's going to be OK.
And that's really
all I need to hear.
There's no reality
to the fear that I'm
having, none whatsoever.
You know, but I contract
into this thing that's
partly because I was raised
Jewish so it's in my DNA
that there's never enough.
I mean, that's drilled
into you early on.
And then there's just this
idea of, what is enough?
>> And then being heard
is what heals it, right?
>> Yeah, no, just instead of
somebody like reacting to you
just saying, oh, tell me more.
You know, just tell me more.
Is there anything
else you need to say?
>> It's beautiful.
Thank you so much.
[CALMING MUSIC]